# Null model for TE analysis
While TE is a distinguished technique to infer the effective connectivity, it is bivariate in nature and comes with certain limitations that require additional measures to ensure the robust analysis. To deal with that problem, the null model was introduced. With the Monte Carlo approach, we created a null model by jittering spike times solely from the sender neuron, thereby preserving the receiver neuron’s auto-prediction ability. This null model ensured that the firing rate remained intact while introducing random temporal correlations between spikes in the two times series. To achieve this, each spike in the source series was jittered using a Gaussian distribution centered on the actual spike time with a standard deviation of 10ms, resulting in a stringent analysis.

# Null model for NSC analysis
Neurons can exhibit correlated firing patterns, leading to the perception of syn- chronous activity or coincidences. However, these coincidences may not be in- dicative of true functional connections or interactions between neurons. Instead, they could be a result of random spike timing fluctuations. In order to debate this issue, we performed the null models for coincidence analysis to make sure there is no synchronization. By generating random shifts to the spike time of the data, we aimed to assess whether the observed synchronous firing patterns among neurons were indeed a product of genuine functional connections or merely a consequence of chance-based spike timing fluctuations. This evaluation allowed us to discern between meaningful neural interactions and random coincidences.

